Combine 4 part series into one tutorial (#5301)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/developers/tutorials/hello-world-smart-contract-fullstack/index.md

888    888                      888 888               888
888    888                      888 888               888
8888888888  8888b.  888d888 .d88888 88888b.   8888b.  888888
888    888     "88b 888P"  d88" 888 888 "88b     "88b 888
888    888 .d888888 888    888  888 888  888 .d888888 888
888    888 888  888 888    Y88b 888 888  888 888  888 Y88b.
888    888 "Y888888 888     "Y88888 888  888 "Y888888  "Y888

👷 Welcome to Hardhat v2.0.11 👷‍

What do you want to do? …
Create a sample project
❯ Create an empty hardhat.config.js
Quit
```

This will generate a `hardhat.config.js` file for us, which is where we’ll specify all of the setup for our project (on step 13).

### Step 9: Add project folders {#step-9-add-project-folders}

To keep our project organized we’ll create two new folders. Navigate to the root directory of your `hello-world` project in your command line and type:

```
mkdir contracts
mkdir scripts
```

- `contracts/` is where we’ll keep our hello world smart contract code file
- `scripts/` is where we’ll keep scripts to deploy and interact with our contract

### Step 10: Write our contract {#step-10-write-our-contract}

> You might be asking yourself, when the heck are we going to write code?? Well, here we are, on Step 10.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might be asking yourself, when are we going to write code? It's time!
```

> Open up the hello-world project in your favorite editor (we like [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com)). Smart contracts are written in a language called Solidity which is what we will use to write our HelloWorld.sol smart contract.‌

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open up the hello-world project in your favorite editor. Smart contracts most commonly are written in Solidity, which we will use to write our smart contract.‌
```

> 1. Navigate to the “contracts” folder and create a new file called `HelloWorld.sol`

Reviewer: We keep flip-flopping between using backticks and using quotes. Using backticks for consistency for now. Also, we handhold teaching people in making two directories but assume they can create files.

```suggestion
1. Navigate to the `contracts` folder and create a new file called `HelloWorld.sol`
```

> 2. Below is a sample Hello World smart contract from the [Ethereum Foundation](https://ethereum.org/en/) that we will be using for this tutorial. Copy and paste in the contents below into your `HelloWorld.sol file`, and be sure to read the comments to understand what this contract does:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Below is a sample Hello World smart contract that we will be using for this tutorial. Copy the contents below into the `HelloWorld.sol` file. 

_Note: Be sure to read the comments to understand what this contract does._
```

   event UpdatedMessages(string oldStr, string newStr);

   // Declares a state variable `message` of type `string`.
   // State variables are variables whose values are permanently stored in contract storage. The keyword `public` makes variables accessible from outside a contract and creates a function that other contracts or clients can call to access the value.
   string public message;

   // Similar to many class-based object-oriented languages, a constructor is a special function that is only executed upon contract creation.
   // Constructors are used to initialize the contract's data. Learn more:https://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/v0.5.10/contracts.html#constructors
   constructor(string memory initMessage) {

      // Accepts a string argument `initMessage` and sets the value into the contract's `message` storage variable).
      message = initMessage;
   }

   // A public function that accepts a string argument and updates the `message` storage variable.
   function update(string memory newMessage) public {
      string memory oldMsg = message;
      message = newMessage;
      emit UpdatedMessages(oldMsg, newMessage);
   }
}
```

> This is a super simple smart contract that stores a message upon creation and can be updated by calling the `update` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a basic smart contract that stores a message upon creation. It can be updated by calling the `update` function.
```

### Step 11: Connect Metamask & Alchemy to your project {#step-11-connect-metamask-&-alchemy-to-your-project}

We’ve created a Metamask wallet, Alchemy account, and written our smart contract, now it’s time to connect the three.

> Every transaction sent from your virtual wallet requires a signature using your unique private key. To provide our program with this permission, we can safely store our private key (and Alchemy API key) in an environment file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every transaction sent from your wallet requires a signature using your unique private key. To provide our program with this permission, we can safely store our private key in an environment file. We will also store an API key for Alchemy here.
```

> To learn more about sending transactions, check out [this tutorial](https://docs.alchemyapi.io/alchemy/tutorials/sending-transactions-using-web3-and-alchemy) on sending transactions using web3.

First, install the dotenv package in your project directory:

```
npm install dotenv --save
```

> Then, create a `.env` file in the root directory of our project, and add your Metamask private key and HTTP Alchemy API URL to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, create a `.env` file in the root directory of the project. Add your Metamask private key and HTTP Alchemy API URL to it.
```

Your environment file must be named `.env` or it won't be recognized as an environment file.

Do not name it `process.env` or `.env-custom` or anything else.

- Follow [these instructions](https://metamask.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360015289632-How-to-Export-an-Account-Private-Key) to export your private key
- See below to get HTTP Alchemy API URL

![](./get-alchemy-api-key.gif)

Your `.env` should look like this:

```
API_URL = "https://eth-ropsten.alchemyapi.io/v2/your-api-key"

> PRIVATE_KEY = "your-metamask-private-key"

Reviewer: Kinda think we should be clearer here. Last thing we want is people accidentally pushing their private keys to version control .

```

> To actually connect these to our code, we’ll reference these variables in our `hardhat.config.js` file on step 13.

Reviewer: This section needs reorganised, we're explaining things in the wrong order.

### Step 12: Install Ethers.js {#step-12-install-ethers.js}

Ethers.js is a library that makes it easier to interact and make requests to Ethereum by wrapping [standard JSON-RPC methods](https://docs.alchemyapi.io/alchemy/documentation/alchemy-api-reference/json-rpc) with more user friendly methods.

> Hardhat makes it super easy to integrate [Plugins](https://hardhat.org/plugins/) for additional tooling and extended functionality. We’ll be taking advantage of the [Ethers plugin](https://hardhat.org/plugins/nomiclabs-hardhat-ethers.html) for contract deployment ([Ethers.js](https://github.com/ethers-io/ethers.js/) has some super clean contract deployment methods).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hardhat allows us to integrate [plugins](https://hardhat.org/plugins/) for additional tooling and extended functionality. We’ll be taking advantage of the [Ethers plugin](https://hardhat.org/plugins/nomiclabs-hardhat-ethers.html) for contract deployment.
```

In your project directory type:

```bash

> npm install --save-dev @nomiclabs/hardhat-ethers "ethers@^5.0.0"

Reviewer: @corwintines was there a windows vs unix issue here? Did we find a way to resolve this?

```

> We’ll also require ethers in our `hardhat.config.js` in the next step.

Reviewer: Show don't tell

```suggestion
```

### Step 13: Update hardhat.config.js {#step-13-update-hardhat.config.js}

We’ve added several dependencies and plugins so far, now we need to update `hardhat.config.js` so that our project knows about all of them.

Update your `hardhat.config.js` to look like this:

```javascript
/**
 * @type import('hardhat/config').HardhatUserConfig
 */

require("dotenv").config()
require("@nomiclabs/hardhat-ethers")

const { API_URL, PRIVATE_KEY } = process.env

module.exports = {
  solidity: "0.7.3",
  defaultNetwork: "ropsten",
  networks: {
    hardhat: {},
    ropsten: {
      url: API_URL,
      accounts: [`0x${PRIVATE_KEY}`],
    },
  },
}
```

### Step 14: Compile our contract {#step-14-compile-our-contract}

To make sure everything is working so far, let’s compile our contract. The `compile` task is one of the built-in hardhat tasks.

From the command line run:

```bash
npx hardhat compile
```

> You might get a warning about `SPDX license identifier not provided in source file` , but no need to worry about that — hopefully everything else looks good! If not, you can always message in the [Alchemy discord](https://discord.gg/u72VCg3).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might get a warning about `SPDX license identifier not provided in source file`, but no need to worry about that — hopefully everything else looks good! If not, you can always message in the [Alchemy discord](https://discord.gg/u72VCg3).
```

```javascript
const HelloWorld = await ethers.getContractFactory("HelloWorld")
```

A `ContractFactory` in ethers.js is an abstraction used to deploy new smart contracts, so `HelloWorld` here is a [factory](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Factory_(object-oriented_programming)>) for instances of our hello world contract. When using the `hardhat-ethers` plugin `ContractFactory` and `Contract`, instances are connected to the first signer (owner) by default.

```javascript
const hello_world = await HelloWorld.deploy()
```

Calling `deploy()` on a `ContractFactory` will start the deployment, and return a `Promise` that resolves to a `Contract` object. This is the object that has a method for each of our smart contract functions.

### Step 16: Deploy our contract {#step-16-deploy-our-contract}

We’re finally ready to deploy our smart contract! Navigate to the command line and run:

```bash
npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network ropsten
```

You should then see something like:

```bash
Contract deployed to address: 0x6cd7d44516a20882cEa2DE9f205bF401c0d23570
```

> **Please copy and paste this address to save it somewhere**, as we will be using this address for later tutorials, so you don't want to lose it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Please save this address**. We will be using it later in the tutorial.
```

If we go to the [Ropsten etherscan](https://ropsten.etherscan.io) and search for our contract address we should able to see that it has been deployed successfully. The transaction will look something like this:

![](./etherscan-contract.png)

> The `From` address should match your Metamask account address and the To address will say “Contract Creation” but if we click into the transaction we’ll see our contract address in the `To` field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `From` address should match your Metamask account address and the `To` address will say **Contract Creation**. If we click into the transaction we’ll see our contract address in the `To` field.
```

![](./etherscan-transaction.png)

> Congrats! You just deployed a smart contract to the Ethereum chain 🎉

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congrats! You just deployed a smart contract to an Ethereum testnet.
```

> To understand what’s going on under the hood, let’s navigate to the Explorer tab in our [Alchemy dashboard ](https://dashboard.alchemyapi.io/explorer). If you have multiple Alchemy apps make sure to filter by app and select “Hello World”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To understand what’s going on under the hood, let’s navigate to the Explorer tab in our [Alchemy dashboard](https://dashboard.alchemyapi.io/explorer). If you have multiple Alchemy apps make sure to filter by app and select “Hello World”.
```

- Sign Ethereum transactions using Metamask

For this dApp, we'll be using [React](https://reactjs.org/) as our frontend framework; however, it's important to note that we won't be spending much time breaking down its fundamentals, as we'll mostly be focusing on bringing Web3 functionality to our project.

As a prerequisite, you should have a beginner-level understanding of React—know how components, props, useState/useEffect, and basic function calling works. If you've never heard of any of those terms before, we recommend that you check out this [Intro to React tutorial](https://reactjs.org/tutorial/tutorial.html). For the more visual learners, we highly recommend this awesome Net Ninja [Full Modern React Tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL4cUxeGkcC9gZD-Tvwfod2gaISzfRiP9d) video series.

### Step 1: Clone the starter files {#step-2-clone-the-starter-files}

First, go to the [hello-world-part-four github repository](https://github.com/alchemyplatform/hello-world-part-four-tutorial) to get the starter files for this project. Clone this repository into your local environment.

> When you open this cloned `hello-world-part-four` repository, you'll notice that it contains two folders: `starter-files` and `completed`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the cloned repository locally. Notice that it contains two folders: `starter-files` and `completed`.
```

> - `starter-files` contains the starter files \(essentially the React UI\) for this project. In this tutorial, **we will be working in this directory**, as you learn how to bring this UI to life by connecting it to your Ethereum wallet and the Hello World smart contract that you published on Etherscan in [Part 3](https://docs.alchemy.com/alchemy/tutorials/hello-world-smart-contract/submitting-your-smart-contract-to-etherscan).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `starter-files`- **we will be working in this directory**, we will connect the UI to your Ethereum wallet and the smart contract we published to Etherscan in [Part 3](#part-3).
```

> - `completed` contains the entire completed tutorial and is there for you as a **reference** **if you get stuck.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `completed` contains the entire completed tutorial and should only be used as a reference if you get stuck.
```

> Next, open your copy of `starter-files` to your favorite code editor, and then navigate into your `src` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, open your copy of `starter-files` to your favorite code editor, and then navigate into the `src` folder.
```

> All of the code we'll write will live under the `src` folder. We'll be editing the `HelloWorld.js` component and the `util/interact.js` javascript files to give our project Web3 functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of the code we'll write will live under the `src` folder. We'll be editing the `HelloWorld.js` component and the `util/interact.js` Javascript files to give our project Web3 functionality.
```

> ### Step 2: Check out the starter files {#step-2-check-out-the-starter-files}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check out the starter files {#check-out-the-starter-files}
```

> Before we start coding, it's super important that we figure out what's already provided for us in the starter files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we start coding, let's explore what is provided to us in the starter files.
```

#### Get your react project running {#get-your-react-project-running}

Let's start by running the React project in our browser. The beauty of React is that once we have our project running in our browser, any changes we save will be updated live in our browser.

To get the project running, navigate to the root directory of the `starter-files` folder, and the run `npm install` in your terminal to install the dependencies of the project:

```bash
cd starter-files
npm install
```

Once those have finished installing, run `npm start` in your terminal:

```bash
npm start
```

Doing so should open [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/) in your browser, where you'll see the frontend for our project. It should consist of one field \(a place to update the message stored in your smart contract\), a "Connect Wallet" button, and an "Update" button.

> If you try clicking "Connect Wallet" or "Update" buttons, you'll notice that they don't work—that's because we still need to program their functionality! :\)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you try clicking either button, you'll notice that they don't work—that's because we still need to program their functionality.
```

#### The `HelloWorld.js` component {#the-helloworld-js-component}

> **NOTE:** Make sure you're in the `starter-files` folder and not the `completed` folder!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's go back into the `src` folder in our editor and open the `HelloWorld.js` file. It's super important that we understand everything in this file, as it is the primary React component we will be working on.

> At the top of this file, you'll notice we have several import statements that are necessary to get our project running, including the React library, useEffect and useState hooks, some items from the `./util/interact.js` (we'll describe them in more details soon!), and the Alchemy logo <Emoji text="🧙‍♂️" size={1} />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the top of this file, you'll notice we have several import statements that are necessary to get our project running, including the React library, useEffect and useState hooks, some items from the `./util/interact.js` (we'll describe them in more details soon!), and the Alchemy logo.
```

```javascript
// HelloWorld.js

//called only once
useEffect(async () => {
  //TODO: implement
}, [])

function addSmartContractListener() {
  //TODO: implement
}

function addWalletListener() {
  //TODO: implement
}

const connectWalletPressed = async () => {
  //TODO: implement
}

const onUpdatePressed = async () => {
  //TODO: implement
}
```

- [`useEffect`](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-effect.html)- this is a React hook that is called after your component is rendered. Because it has an empty array `[]` prop passed into it \(see line 4\), it will only be called on the component's _first_ render. Here we'll load the current message stored in our smart contract, call our smart contract and wallet listeners, and update our UI to reflect whether a wallet is already connected.
- `addSmartContractListener`- this function sets up a listener that will watch for our HelloWorld contract's `UpdatedMessages` event and update our UI when the message is changed in our smart contract.
- `addWalletListener`- this function sets up a listener that detects changes in the user's Metamask wallet state, such as when the user disconnects their wallet or switches addresses.

> - `connectWalletPressed`- this function will be called to connect the user's Metamask wallet to our dApp.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `connectWalletPressed`- this function will be called to connect the user's Metamask wallet to our dapp.
```

Now that you've added this code, let's try refreshing our browser window.

Niceeeee! The button should say that you're connected, and show a preview of your connected wallet's address - even after you refresh!

#### Implement `addWalletListener` {#implement-addwalletlistener}

The final step in our dApp wallet setup is implementing the wallet listener so our UI updates when our wallet's state changes, such as when the user disconnects or switches accounts.

In your `HelloWorld.js` file, modify your `addWalletListener` function as the following:

```javascript
// HelloWorld.js

function addWalletListener() {
  if (window.ethereum) {
    window.ethereum.on("accountsChanged", (accounts) => {
      if (accounts.length > 0) {
        setWallet(accounts[0])
        setStatus("👆🏽 Write a message in the text-field above.")
      } else {
        setWallet("")
        setStatus("🦊 Connect to Metamask using the top right button.")
      }
    })
  } else {
    setStatus(
      <p>
        {" "}
        🦊 <a target="_blank" href={`https://metamask.io/download.html`}>
          You must install Metamask, a virtual Ethereum wallet, in your browser.
        </a>
      </p>
    )
  }
}
```

> I bet you don't even need our help to understand what's going on here at this point 😉, but for thoroughness purposes, let's quickly break it down:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I bet you don't even need our help to understand what's going on here at this point, but for thoroughness purposes, let's quickly break it down:
```

  try {
    const txHash = await window.ethereum.request({
      method: "eth_sendTransaction",
      params: [transactionParameters],
    })
    return {
      status: (
        <span>
          ✅{" "}
          <a target="_blank" href={`https://ropsten.etherscan.io/tx/${txHash}`}>
            View the status of your transaction on Etherscan!
          </a>
          <br />
          ℹ️ Once the transaction is verified by the network, the message will
          be updated automatically.
        </span>
      ),
    }
  } catch (error) {
    return {
      status: "😥 " + error.message,
    }
  }
}
```

Last but not least, we need to connect our `updateMessage` function to our `HelloWorld.js` component.

#### Connect `updateMessage` to the `HelloWorld.js` frontend {#connect-updatemessage-to-the-helloworld-js-frontend}

Our `onUpdatePressed` function should make an await call to the imported `updateMessage` function and modify the `status` state variable to reflect whether our transaction succeeded or failed:

```javascript
// HelloWorld.js

const onUpdatePressed = async () => {
  const { status } = await updateMessage(walletAddress, newMessage)
  setStatus(status)
}
```

> It's super clean and simple. 😌And guess what...YOUR DAPP IS COMPLETE!!!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's super clean and simple. And guess what... YOUR DAPP IS COMPLETE!!!
```

> Go ahead and test out your "Update" button!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go ahead and test out the **Update** button!
```

> ### Step 7: Make your own custom dApp 🚀 {#step-7-make-your-own-custom-dapp}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Make your own custom dapp {#make-your-own-custom-dapp}
```
